https://www.sr-research.com/support/thread-213.html?highlight=drift

The Drift Correction and Drift Check procedure are very similar; 
the participant fixates a single target, then either the participant or 
more typically the experimenter presses a button or key and the system 
calculates the deviation of the recorded gaze position of the participant 
and the drift correction target. The difference between the two operations 
is what the system does with that information subsequently.

For a Drift Check, the system simply checks if the participant's gaze 
position is < 2Â° of visual angle from the presented target. If so, the 
participant may proceed with the experiment, if not the participant must 
try again.

For a Drift Correction, the system attempts to apply a linear correction 
to the calibration model to compensate for this deviation.

For the EyeLink I and II systems, an actual Drift Correction is applied by 
default - the fixation error is used to shift the calibration map. This 
linear adjustment often improves the overall accuracy for upcoming 
recordings because the drift is usually caused by slippage of headband.

For the EyeLink 1000, EyeLink 1000 Plus and EyeLink Portable Duo systems, 
performing an actual Drift Correction and shifting the calibration map 
generally does not improve gaze accuracy (in fact, it can actually reduce 
the accuracy of your tracking if the correction was applied when the 
participant was actually not properly fixating). Therefore, the default 
behavior in the Pupil-CR mode in these systems is to simply report the 
calculated fixation error without altering the calibration map in any way 
(i.e. a Drift Check).

If the participant repeatedly fails the Drift Check, it's best to press 
the "ESC" key to enter Camera Setup and recalibrate the participant. Once 
you have recalibrated and validated, pressing "Output / Record" on the Host 
PC will take you back to the same Drift Check where you left off without 
disrupting the course of your experiment.
